Add Nord Pool integration (#35625)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/nordpool.markdown

---
title: Nord Pool
description: Instructions on how to integrate with the Nord Pool Energy market prices.
ha_category:
  - Energy
  - Finance
  - Sensor
ha_release: 2024.12
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@gjohansson-ST'
ha_domain: nordpool
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **Nord Pool** {% term integration %} integrates [Nord Pool Group](https://www.nordpoolgroup.com/) energy prices into Home Assistant.

The {% term integration %} provides the public market prices displayed on the [Nord Pool Auction page](https://data.nordpoolgroup.com/auction/day-ahead/prices).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% tip %}

> Only a single configuration entry is supported so ensure you select all the areas of interest when you setup the integration.

Author: ```suggestion
Only a single configuration entry is supported, ensure you select all the areas of interest when you set up the integration.
```

EUR is the base currency for market prices, You will find in the `Exchange rate` sensor the relevant conversion used if you choose another currency.
All prices will be displayed as `selected_currency/kWh`.
{% endtip %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Areas:
  description: Select one or multiple of market areas to create sensors for.
Currency:
  description: Currency to display prices in, EUR is the base currency in Nord Pool prices.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Sensors

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Each market area will create a device which has the following sensors:

```

### Main sensors

- Current price for the selected area
- Previous price for the selected area
- Next price for the selected area

These sensors can be used to calculate your current cost of energy, should I charge my battery now or next hour etc.

### Block price sensors

- Block average
- Block minimum
- Block maximum
- Block start time
- Block end time

> These sensors show the minimum/maximum and average during certain blocks of the day. More known as off-peak (cheaper) or peak hours (expensive).

Author: ```suggestion
These sensors show the minimum/maximum and average during certain blocks of the day. More known as off-peak (typically lower price) or peak hours (typically higher price).
```

> These sensors are not enabled by default and needs to be enabled to be used.

Author: ```suggestion
The block price sensors are not enabled by default.
```

### Daily average

- Daily average

> This sensor is not enabled by default.

Author: ```suggestion
The daily average sensor is not enabled by default.
```

### Diagnostic sensors

- Last updated - indicated when the market price was last updated.
- Currency - The selected currency.
- Exchange rate - EUR is the base currency so will show the exchange rate used on the market place.

The `Exchange rate` sensor is not enabled by default.

## Example

A simple template sensor to add VAT and a fixed cost from an `input_number` entity

{% raw %}

```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
      - name: "Full SE3 current price"
        unit_of_measurement: "SEK/kWh"
        state_class: measurement
        state: >
          {% set cost = states('sensor.nord pool_se3_current_price') | float(0) %}
          {% set add_cost = states('input_number.add_fixed_cost') | float(0) %}

> 
>           {{ ((cost + add_cost) * 1.25) | round(2, default=0) }}

Author: ```suggestion
          # Add fixed cost to the spot price and add VAT (25%)
          {{ ((cost + add_cost) * 1.25) | round(2, default=0) }}
```

---
title: Nord Pool
description: Instructions on how to integrate with the Nord Pool Energy market prices.
ha_category:
  - Energy
  - Finance
  - Sensor
ha_release: 2024.12
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@gjohansson-ST'
ha_domain: nordpool
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **Nord Pool** {% term integration %} integrates [Nord Pool Group](https://www.nordpoolgroup.com/) energy prices into Home Assistant.

The {% term integration %} provides the public market prices displayed on the [Nord Pool Auction page](https://data.nordpoolgroup.com/auction/day-ahead/prices).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% tip %}

> Only a single configuration entry is supported, ensure you select all the areas of interest when you set up the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only a single configuration entry is supported. When setting up the integration, ensure you select all the areas of interest.
```

> EUR is the base currency for market prices, You will find in the `Exchange rate` sensor the relevant conversion used if you choose another currency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EUR is the base currency for market prices. If you choose another currency, you can find the conversion rate in the `Exchange rate` sensor.
```

> All prices will be displayed as `selected_currency/kWh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All prices are displayed as `selected_currency/kWh`.
```

{% endtip %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Areas:

>   description: Select one or multiple of market areas to create sensors for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Select one or multiple market areas to create sensors for.
```

Currency:

>   description: Currency to display prices in, EUR is the base currency in Nord Pool prices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Currency to display prices in. EUR is the base currency in Nord Pool prices.
```

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Sensors

Each market area will create a device which has the following sensors:

### Main sensors

- Current price for the selected area
- Previous price for the selected area
- Next price for the selected area

> These sensors can be used to calculate your current cost of energy, should I charge my battery now or next hour etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These sensors can be used to calculate your current energy cost, or to help decide whether to charge the battery now or in an hour, etc.
```

### Block price sensors

- Block average
- Block minimum
- Block maximum
- Block start time
- Block end time

These sensors show the minimum/maximum and average during certain blocks of the day. More known as off-peak (typically lower price) or peak hours (typically higher price).
The block price sensors are not enabled by default.

### Daily average

- Daily average

The daily average sensor is not enabled by default.

### Diagnostic sensors

> - Last updated - indicated when the market price was last updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Last updated - indicates when the market price was last updated.
```
